#summary Instructions on how to build VClipse from its sources
= Building VClipse =

You should follow these instructions when you like to build VClipse from its sources.

It is assumed that you know how to install Java, Eclipse, and Eclipse plugins from update sites.


== Prerequisites ==

VClipse requires Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version 6, Eclipse Galileo (3.5.x), and the Eclipse TMF Xtext 0.7.2 SDK installed.
VClipse does not (yet) work with newer releases of TMF Xtext, since they contain incompatible API changes.

 * Install Java Runtime Environment 6 from http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads
 * Install the Eclipse Galileo distribution ''Eclipse for RCP/Plug-in Developers'' from http://www.eclipse.org/downloads
 * Install the following items out of the ''Modeling'' category from the Galileo update site http://download.eclipse.org/releases/galileo
   * EMF - Eclipse Modeling Framework SDK
   * EMF Compare SDK
   * MWE SDK (Incubation)
   * Xpand SDK (Incubation)
   * Xtext SDK (Incubation)
 * Install the following item from the uncategorized Galileo update site
   * Apache Jakarta log4j
 * Install the following item from the TMF Xtext update site at itemis http://download.itemis.com/updates/
   * Xtext Antlr Support 0.7.2 (do not install a newer version!) 


== Subversion ==

VClipse is maintained on Google code using Subversion. You can retrieve the source code using any Subversion client. 

 * Make sure a Subversion client is installed in your Eclipse distribution. You can use either Subclipse (update site at http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.6.x) or Subversive (update via http://download.eclipse.org/releases/galileo)  
 * Import the projects via ''Checkout Projects from SVN'' using the repository location http://vclipse.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
 * Select all projects below ''trunk'' and click ''Finish''.

You will now notice error markers in several files when Eclipse tries to build the projects.
They will disappear after the next step.


== Building VClipse ==

VClipse is implemented using the [http://www.eclipse.org/Xtext Xtext] framework.
From the grammar definition files ''VCML.xtext'' and ''IDoc.xtext'' inside of the VClipse plugins, 
certain Java code has to be generated by running two MWE workflow files in sequence: 

 * In the folder org.vclipse.idoc/src/org/vclipse/idoc, right click on ''GenerateIDoc.mwe'' and select ''Run As'' > ''MWE Workflow''
 * In the folder org.vclipse.vcml/src/org/vclipse/vcml, right click on ''GenerateVCML.mwe'' and select ''Run As'' > ''MWE Workflow''

If there are error messages coming up, just click ''Proceed''.
The ''Console'' view will show the progress of the workflows.

Building the workspace might take a while, but after it is finished all error markers should have disappeared.


== Installing VClipse ==

To install VClipse directly into your Eclipse instance
 # Select ''File'' > ''Export...'' > ''Plug-in Development'' > ''Deployable features'' > ''Next''
 # Select all VClipse features.
 # Select ''Install into host. Repository'' and click 'Finish'.
 # Restart Eclipse, when asked.

Now you start using VClipse by creating a VCML file. 
